# Quick links 
[Our results/solution written in latex](https://github.com/Cosby1992/CPH-business-assingments/blob/master/Data%20Science/Assignment_3_optimization/Assignment.pdf)

[Folder with java files](https://github.com/Cosby1992/CPH-business-assingments/tree/master/Data%20Science/Assignment_3_optimization/letterfrequencies/src/main/java/cphbusiness/ufo/letterfrequencies)

[Assignment from CBH business](https://github.com/Cosby1992/CPH-business-assingments/blob/master/Data%20Science/Assignment_3_optimization/assignment/assignment-03.pdf)

# Optimization
This repo contains a program called Letter frequencies as well as classes with optimizations of this code. 
To read about our results and see box-plots descriping the optimization in execution times see the file ```Assignment.pdf``` witch is written in LaTeX. 

# Roadmap
The ```assignemnt``` folder contains the original assignment handed to us by CBH business. 
The ```latex``` folder contains all files generated by latex as well as the ```.tex``` file we have made. 
The ```letterfrequencies``` folder contains both the original letter frequency program files as well as it's optimized counterparts

The java files (normal and optimized) can be found in ```letterfrequencies\src\main\java\cphbusiness\ufo\letterfrequencies``` together with an output folder witch contains the most recent 500 run-times in csv file from both the normal and optimized runs.

## Java file descriptions
```Main.java``` contains the original letter frequencies project, unoptimized, but with a timer implemented to calculate runtimes
```MainOptimized.java``` contains the optimized letter frequencies project, with a timer to calculate runtimes
```MainOptimizedSpeedTest.java``` contains the optimized letter frequencies project, but here it runs 500 times and writes the execution times to a csv file in the output folder. 
```MainSpeedTest.java``` contains the original letter frequencies project, but here it runs 500 times and writes the execution times to a csv file in the output folder. 
```Timer.java``` contains the timer used to measure the execution times. 

# To run
1. Download this folder, you can use this link so you don't have to clone the entire repo -> [downgit link](https://minhaskamal.github.io/DownGit/#/home?url=https://github.com/Cosby1992/CPH-business-assingments/tree/master/Data%20Science/Assignment_3_optimization) 

2. Run the file you are interested in from ```letterfrequencies\src\main\java\cphbusiness\ufo\letterfrequencies```

# Troubleshoot
If you are using IntelliJ it can be nessesary to change the root directory for the project as well as maybe changing the output folder. 

These settings can be changed from ```file -> project structure -> project```.
